# Zombie run---Several easy and medium encounters (190 xp)
- 15 [zombie shamblers](https://2e.aonprd.com/Monsters.aspx?ID=3249&Redirected=1) (10xp a pop for 150 xp)

- 1 [zombie lord](https://2e.aonprd.com/Monsters.aspx?ID=1921) (40 xp)

Virdolak is quiet. Too quiet. The winds are as dead as the foliage around. Rot fills the air as leaves crumble underneath footsteps. The outer trade district of the town is mute. A church on one side, a tavern on the other. Atop a hill is a blacksmithy... Along with a ritual. Dark tendrils of purple and black swirl around the area right outside the forge. One could assume something normal happening up until a zombie shambler pushes a barrel of oil down the nearby stairs. Before tripping. Falling. And landing on its head, barely still moving. The kerfuffle alerts the spellcaster who screams "Interlopers eh? How dare you interrupt my work? Have at thee! Go, my darlings!" This yelling is followed by 2 zombie shamblers stepping out of the tavern to the main throughfare, a third jumping out the window and 3 more in the church coming out to attack. 

During this first encounter, the zombie lord curses as they approach but won't attempt to attack until they are visible to him (at the same elevation as the hill) or reach the sloped part of the hill. 

The pathfinders may wish to look through the buildings before or after dealing with the zombie lord. Unless they look into the blacksmithy, all will be fine in the world. 

They can find a locked strongbox (DC 15 thievery or athletics check to open) in the tavern, containing the following items:
- 2 elixirs of life (used by the tavern for first aid)
- 1 platinum, 47 gold, 34 silver, and 88 copper pieces as the strongbox was being used as a till.


Behind the counter, they can also find:
  - a striking rune 
  - a handful of jewelery worth 5 gp
  - a moderate ghost charge


The church is less willing to give out loot, only containing 2 items:
- A religious symbol. A dc 16 religion check reveals it to be [Laivatiniel](https://2e.aonprd.com/Deities.aspx?ID=419)
- With a through search for a dc 19 perception check, the players will find a vitalizing rune embeded into a statue behind the altar

The house slightly above the church only has a measly 7 silver and 2 copper pieces. Many of the walls are coated with phrases like "I saw when he was taken and when it bloomed from him.", "The dolls have the voice of my brother" and "That heart kept moving." This may mean little to the players now but these tease at certain encounters later on. Additionally, there's a small statue hidden underneath a tarp. When the tarp is removed, pick a player. The statue is a perfect bust of that person, as though they were petrified and decapitated. 
