## Housing Dispute -- Mostly social, possibly ghost punching (80xp)
2 [Domovoi](https://2e.aonprd.com/Monsters.aspx?ID=1194) are fighting over ownership of this hovel. 

As the players enter the small house, 2 pieces of tableware fly across the hallway, followed by the curses of 2 small men who skitter across the floor. Both start invisible but become visible once a player tries to speak with them. They introduce themselves as Gemmory, the current domovoi of this house, and Gremora, the domovoi who wants to move in. 

Gemmory has lived within this house since nearly its creation, almost 600 years ago. Although with the death of the last resident, around 15 years ago, his claim has less weight than it could. He also wants to eat more offerings from this new group if he is to stay. He also has not seen this family arrive yet as the only sign of them moving in would be Gremora.

Gremora, on the other hand, was the domovoi of the family that was moving into this home. Said family had no relation to the previous residents and was moving to better survive within Ustalav. Gremora was treated fairly by the new family and was willing to follow them, albeit not with a roommate like Gemmory.

Gremora's previous home was actually passed by the adventurers before, the first house across the bridge. The family, seeing as they are both undead and redead, will not be coming to this home. A DC 17 society check illuminates this information.

Neither domovoi is excited by the prospect of living with another and will only be happy if one of the following conditions are met:

- The other domovoi leaves, dead or alive
- A better home is provided that they can go to

Either domovoi would love an expansive area to call their home and would be willing to go to the rebel base. 

This is not the end however. In a nearby home, one the players could also pick as their temporary base, is a single [Ghost Commoner](https://2e.aonprd.com/Monsters.aspx?ID=3007&Redirected=1) who wishes to move on. She's happy to answer questions but mostly wants funeral rites performed over her body, at least what remains of it, so she can move on. She has the following information:

- She died around a month ago. Something about being beautiful enough to take the mistress's eyes off the mayor.
- She heard a lot of people moving to an old garrison, barely out of the town walls. That being said, very little remains of the walls after a monster attack.
- On a DC 20 society check, the players can also recognize some pathfinder paraphenelia around the room. She was a pathfinder and a contact within the town. That doesn't matter much now but she does have a stash of aeon stones to be given freely. Nothing that fancy but still. 
